---
layout: post
title:  "23andNotMe"
author: Tom VanAntwerp
date:   2013-12-06 16:08:00
thumbnail: /images/dna.png
description: "“Protecting” me from inaccurate tests only does two things: it makes it impossible for me to get any test, and makes it harder to continue developing cheaper tests with great accuracy. I am not asking for perfect health care. There’s no such thing. The FDA, intervening to “help” me, has only reduced my options for choosing what imperfect health care is available to me."
tags:
  - 23andMe
  - FDA
  - genetics
  - health
  - health care
  - regulation
---
Two weeks ago, the [FDA told genetic testing company 23andMe that they had to immediately halt marketing kits](http://www.fda.gov/ICECI/EnforcementActions/WarningLetters/2013/ucm376296.htm). The fact that they did *not* immediately stop selling kits finally prompted me to buy two: one for me and one for my wife. I hoped to get a genetic test done before the FDA shut them down, as I feared they would. Unfortunately, I was too late. Today, the same day the testing kits arrived in the mail, 23anMe announced that [they will no longer provide health information connected with their genetic tests](https://www.23andme.com/ancestry-only-notice/).

Needless to say, I’m furious. I’ll definitely demand my money back. But I also can’t blame 23andMe too much. This is certainly the FDA’s fault. I’d seen many techies standing up for the FDA in this case (and zero libertarian friends, naturally), and it confuses me seriously. I understand that 23andMe might not be 100% accurate. And I can see how some people might not understand that. But I also understand that for $100 per kit, it’s the only genetic test I could afford. Now, thanks to the FDA, I’m no longer able to afford a comprehensive genetic test at any level of accuracy.

“Protecting” me from inaccurate tests only does two things: it makes it impossible for me to get *any* test, and makes it harder to continue developing cheaper tests with great accuracy. I am not asking for perfect health care. There’s no such thing. The FDA, intervening to “help” me, has only reduced my options for choosing what imperfect health care is available to me.

So, thanks for nothing, FDA. 23andMe, I’m sorry, and I’ll be expecting that refund soon.
