---
layout: post
title:  "Watch, This"
author: Tom VanAntwerp
date:   2014-07-09 08:42:00
thumbnail: /images/smartwatch.jpg
description: "Since yesterday afternoon, I’ve been using my new Samsung Gear Live, one of the first Android Wear smartwatches. So far, I love it! But I’ll also admit that I don’t yet fully understand how to use it. My first impressions, in no particular order, are these"
tags:
  - Android Wear
  - data
  - Google
  - NSA
  - quantified self
  - smartwatch
  - surveillance
---
Since yesterday afternoon, I’ve been using my new [Samsung Gear Live](http://www.samsung.com/global/microsite/gear/gearlive_design.html), one of the first [Android Wear](http://www.android.com/wear/) smartwatches. So far, I love it! But I’ll also admit that I don’t yet fully understand how to use it. My first impressions, in no particular order, are these:

* It’s wonderful to be gently reminded of a thing, exactly when you needed to remember it. This is frankly why I bought it, and so far so good.
* It integrates really well with my Android phone, though setup was a bit trickier than I expected. I had to enable lots of previously disabled features on my phone with little clear instruction on how to do so. I also had to update the software on my phone and watch a few times during setup.
* The voice recognition is amazing. I can take a note, set a reminder, send a text, look up an item of interest, etc., etc., with great ease.
* If your phone isn’t nearby, or doesn’t have signal, the voice recognition doesn’t work at all. Most of the advanced features of the watch are useless without access to the phone and a good signal.
* The pedometer and heart rate monitor are very cool! I’m looking forward to seeing what all I’ll be able to do with [Google Fit](https://developers.google.com/fit/). I will probably ditch my Fitbit, which has been nice but lacking on the API front.
* I’m not sure how comfortable I am with sharing so much data with Google. They can now know my [location](https://maps.google.com/locationhistory), my physical activity, and more. I don’t especially mind Google knowing these things, but I absolutely mind that the NSA will inevitably take them.
* Not exactly watch-related, but Google Location History isn’t very good. It keeps thinking I regularly go to Fairfax and the Pentagon. Umm, no.
* I don’t always understand why some cards pop up at certain times. Some cards I’d like to see later, but I’m afraid to dismiss them out of fear they’ll never return. So they just sit there, cluttering up things.
* Evernote integration works just as I hoped it would!
* I can control the music I’m listening to on my phone using my watch. Much easier than pulling out my phone, entering my password, and fiddling around there.
* The charger is weird and kind of tricky to snap onto the back. (See Edit)
* I love saying “OK Google” and giving commands which are instantly executed. I am still embarrassed to do this in public.
* I’ll probably have more to say about my new watch after using it for a while longer. So far, despite occasional confusion, I recommend it!

**Edit**: Minutes after posting this, my phone tells me that it’s got 20% battery remaining. I left it plugged in all night, and it did not charge at all! This charger is terrible. I wish they had just put a microUSB port on the damn thing like a normal peripheral.
