---
layout: post
title:  "Be It Resolved"
author: Tom VanAntwerp
date:   2014-01-01 21:55:00
description: "2013 wasn’t too bad. I finally had my wedding ceremony, I took a new job with more responsibilities, and I moved to a better apartment in a better neighborhood. It took lots of hard work, but life is improving. I worked like crazy to advance my career and my standard of living. It helps that I’ve had such a wonderful wife to support and inspire me. I want to make sure that the same is true of 2014."
tags:
  - liberty
  - design
  - fitness
  - new year's resolutions
  - technology
---
Happy new year!

2013 wasn’t too bad. I finally had my wedding ceremony, I took a new job with more responsibilities, and I moved to a better apartment in a better neighborhood. It took lots of hard work, but life is improving. I worked like crazy to advance my career and my standard of living. It helps that I’ve had such a wonderful wife to support and inspire me. I want to make sure that the same is true of 2014.

In 2014, I will continue my efforts to better myself and my life. Here is what I’ll be working on.

1. Programming
Technology is the future. After spending 4 years of college not learning anything practical, I’m trying my best to catch up. I spent a good portion of 2013 trying to build my programming skills, and I’m going to redouble my efforts in 2014. Thankfully, my new job affords me several opportunities to learn and practice. The world is filling up with data, and it’s essential to figure out how to collect and process it. [Program or be programmed](http://www.wired.com/geekdad/2011/07/douglas-rushkoff/).
2. Graphic Design
Before I was in IT, I was a designer. I still love art and design, and I’m going to keep practicing it when I can. It’s not that different from programming; attention to detail and clear goals for the end product are key. It’s another useful skill, and one that I want to improve upon. Follow my work [here](http://dribbble.com/tvanantwerp).
3. Physical Fitness
This is something I’ve never been very good at. 2012 and 2013 weren’t good years for me in terms of fitness. I’ve never truly be thin, much less in good shape. But I want that to change. I’m getting older, and I can already tell that my body isn’t what it used to be. I’m hopeful that focusing on a better diet and exercise can help me experience life as someone stronger, healthier, and more attractive than the man I’ve been in the past. I’m tracking some of my efforts [here](http://www.fitbit.com/user/26LK84); feel free to follow me.
4. Liberty
I’m a libertarian, as any reader of my blog already knows. I believe strongly in the importance of individual liberty for a peaceful and prosperous world. It’s a cause I’ve spent my professional life working toward. 2013 has shown a lot of people that [the threat of oppressive governments is growing](/the-end-of-all-secrets/), not shrinking. I intend to fight against that while increasing freedom for myself and my family. Everything else I do is ultimately for this.
